
:A:



A: Acid: Endocrine Exocrine System
A: You gain the ability to attack with an acidic biological compound.
A: Acid works differently in every game, but is associated with doing 'nonelemental' damage. Because of this, it also tends to be associated with being able to deal damage reliably. It can be used in mist, spray, or intravenous form.






A: Active Camouflage: Skin, integumentary system, Keratin
A: Your outer cover has the ability to blend into the environment like an octopus.
A: You claim a permanent bonus to your hide checks when not clothed.






A: Aether sense: Nervous system
A: You are able to sense aetherial material. Choose a sense. It can now detect aetherial material. (If you choose nose, you smell it. If you choose eyes, you see it. If you choose ears, you hear it.)
A: This adds 'mana' and 'spells' to the spectra of energy you can detect.






A: Amphibious gills: Neck, cardiovascular
A: When you are out of water, your gills seal up and resemble normal flesh. They are located on your lower ribs on your sides. Stagnant water is hard to breathe in, and may introduce diseases and toxins directly into your blood.
A: This allows you to breathe underwater at a risk to your health. It takes longer to regain your stamina breathing this way, and is harder if the water is polluted or murky.



A: ankles digitigrade: Musculoskeletal, leg, foot
A: Whens tanding, your heels are in the air. Your feet are a bit longer than plantigrade people's feet. When you stand, you stand on the balls of your feet.
A: Digitigrade races tend to be quicker, but aren't as good at packing large volumes over long distances as plantigrade races are. However, this is a tendency only- this trait can either be cosmetic or balanced.






A: ankles Plantigrade: Musculoskeletal, leg, foot
A: When standing, your heels are on the ground, and you rest your weight on them.
A: Normal rules apply.






A: Antennae: Head, Nervous system
A: You have a pair of antennae on your head. By itself, it does nothing except act as a short range feeler. You need to decide what kind of senses it has, then pay the points to acquire those senses. Once you have chosen them, however, you are able to change the direction they face.
A: This is a base for senses. They do little by themselves.






:B:



A: Beak: Head, Musculoskeletal
A: You have a beak. It reflects any changes you made to your muzzle. It may or may not have teeth.
A: There are no inherent mechanical effects of having a beak, but to people not used to seeing it, it could make you seem more alien. This could negatively affect your ability to reason with them, and xenophobic people may dislike you more.






A: Bioluminescence: Skin, endocrine exocrine System
A: You or a body part glows. Which spectra you glow on is based on your race. You are able to make the limb glow or cease glowing at your discretion.
A: This allows you to use your body as a torch to light the darkness, but makes you highly visible.






A: Bio-recorder: Head, nervous system
A: You are capable of taking memories that are fresh in your mind and imprinting them into perfect, replayable scripts that impart all the sensory data and understanding you had while witnessing it. You can also fake one, but it takes a lot of time- the memory records every physical sensation.
A: This allows you to recall an event with perfect clarity, letting you get a second, third, and fourth look at something. When you have time to sit down and think about the memories, maximize any perception checks for seeing something that could be important.






A: Blood sucker: Digestive System
A: You can drink blood to serve as a quick health replenishment. However, you're not immune to bloodborne diseases unless you also have the scavenger perk.
A: You can injure someone else to become healthier.






A: Blow hole: Head, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular
A: Your nostrils are on top of your head. Smell, breathing, and every other nasal function operates out the top of your head now.
A: You can catch your breath and stay just at the surface, meaning you don't have to break the surface and destroy your hide check to get fresh air.






A: Broad Jaw: Head, Musculoskeletal
A: Your jaw is very broad, designed to crush things with raw power.
A: Your bite attacks deal more damage, Your mouth is easier to strike.









:C:
A: Color lenses: Nervous system
A: You have three lenses, and each focuses in on a different range. (This is usually the same range throughout the race.) The three ranges should be labelled 'near,' 'medium,' and 'far.' there should also be some overlap between near and medium, as well as medium and far, allowing you to see 5 colors. Because of how this works, you will know something's approximate distance just by looking at its color. However, because of this, you can not see what color something is.
A: This makes it easier for you to hit ranged targets, but makes it harder for you to see people who are hiding.






A: Compound eyes: Head, Nervous system
A: Your eyes resemble that of a fly! You have many many tiny facets to see out of . The facets are practically microscopic.
A: This doesn't actually change anything. It's a purely aesthetic effect. If a human were to have a real set of compound eyes at the resolution of a human eye, it would need double the mass of the human's body. Think about the fly's body compared to its eyes- it only gets bigger from there.




:
A: Dangerous teeth: Head, Musculoskeletal
A: You have bigger, sharper teeth. They can be buck teeth like a rabbit's, fangs like a vampire, canines like a predator mammal, or any other variation. The important part is that they are now on par with modern weaponry and armor.
A: This affects the damage dealt with bite attacks.



A: Deep red long term O2 storage muscle cells: Muscle, Cardiovascular, musculoskeletal
A: Your cells are exceptionally good at storing oxygen and preventing carbon dioxide buildup. You can hold your breath for a very long time. You are immune to the bends because of your ability to breathe from your red cells. You can suffer total alveolar collapse and not die. (the amount of time it takes for your alveoli to reinflate is much shorter than an hour.)
A: This affects how long you can hold your breath, as well as how much spare oxygen you can store in your body.



:E:
A: Elastic tentacles: arm, leg, Musculoskeletal
A: You have tentacles that can stretch and reach across a large distance.
A: Your arms can reach a freakish distance away without losing strength.


A: Electromagnetic antennae: Head, Nervous system
A: Many animals know which way north is. You not only know which way north is, but you're able to perceive radiowaves. You can hear and understand analogue radio waves, but need a brain chip to understand digital ones. You also always know which way north is on a planet, and can detect sources of electricity and magnetism.
A: This grants you the ability to know north, to hear and understand basic radio signals, and to detect sources of magnetism and electricity at short range.



A: Emulation system: Head, Nervous system
A: Your brain is very good at imagining moving parts. You aren't necessarily great at building things, but you have a knack for figuring out how things work.
A: You suffer no nonproficiency when making a craft check you aren't proficient in. However, you still need enough basic knowledge that you understand the basic nature of the thing you're trying to make.



A: Extra eyes: Head, Nervous system
A: You have additional eyes. You must decide what kind and where they are.
A: This allows you to see more angles.






A: Extra arm: arm, musculoskeletal
A: You have an extra pair of arms. They can either be just under your other ones or on your shoulder blades.
A: Having an extra arm means a limb with manual dexterity that you don't need to use for typical mobility (unless you're aquatic, in which case your whole body is used for typical mobility.) It also means you have more blood, and therefore are harder to kill.






A: Extra tail: Tail, musculoskeletal
A: You have an extra tail.
A: Having an extra tail has no additional effects by itself. You must also purchase traits to make it have additional effects.






A: Extra thumbs: Hand, foot, musculoskeletal
A: You have two thumbs per hand, and a thumb on each foot. One is on the left, and the other on the right side of your hand.
A: This affects your grip strength, which affects how hard you are to disarm, how easily you can grapple someone, and how good you are at climbing.






A: Eyes: head, nervous system
A: It's assumed most species have these. They let you use vision based abilities.
A: Species with eyes set on the front of their head can see farther, but are much easier to sneak by. Species with eyes on the side of their head are difficult to sneak up on, but have difficulty seeing very far.




A: eyes of Chameleon: Head, Nervous system
A: Your eyes can focus on things separately or at the same time by moving independantly.
A: When you're not focusing on something with both eyes, your distance judgement suffers.






A: eyes of Darkvision: Head, Nervous system
A: You can see in dark conditions (take no penalties due to it being dark.) You can not see in darkness and color at the same time. You can not see in pitch black. You are able to read letters and see pictures.
A: Against people hiding, negate any color penalties they may have. Other than that, you are able to see in the dark as though you were in the daytime. The flicker of a candle from 10 miles away on a perfectly clear night is enough light to let you see, but being closed in a room with sealed doors provides no light.






A: eyes of Infrared vision: Head, Nervous system
A: You can see from the visible down into the infrared spectrum. You can see everything's temperature as another sort of color, but as long as you also have basic vision, you can also still see the color. If the temperature of the air is within 10 degrees of something's core body heat, you can't see that organism. You can not see letters or numbers on paper unless they are written in a metallic ink. You know when someone has touched something if they did it with their bare hands- body warmed surfaces take 10 minutes to cool off and become environment temperature. You can not see through walls, but if someone is leaning against it for a minute, you can see their outline from the other side. You can't see through walls or clothes, but you can see when there is more material in one spot than another due to difference in body heat. For example: You can't see a pistol under someone's shirt, but you can see that the area is cooler, indicating something is blocking the heat. This lets you find stud boards in walls, as well as caches or other cavities in structures. Bear in mind that some rabbits and many other animals are practically invisible on the infrared spectrum due to how their camouflage works.
A: This grants you the ability to see the above. You can see these in the night more easily than the day.






A: eyes of UV and radiation vision: Head, Nervous system.
A: You can see from the visible into the ultraviolet spectrum. You can see everything that would glow under a blacklight as plain as day. You can also see ultraviolet camera flashes. Rainbows have another color after purple. Many kinds of plants have vibrant stripes on them, but most animals do not. Depending on the time of day, plants can look red or green to you. Many toxic animals that use poison in a nonpredatory way, such as scorpions, glow very visibly to you. Many biological fluids, including urine, but not blood, are bright colored to you. Finally, you can also perceive sources of radiation as a gross green color.
A: If it's not trying to hide, and it has UV coloration, you can generally see it. If it is trying to hide, because of your expanded color range, you have an easier time seeing it. If something is leaking toxic radiation, you can see it as a gross green light.






A: eyes of Scope vision: Head, Nervous system
A: Your eye has two lenses, and you have limited control over one of them. You can make it zoom in and out, allowing you to see things that are very far away, and with excellent resolution.
A: You can use your eyes like a rifle scope. Your ability to use it depends on the attribute that governs your health.






A: eyes with Terahertz projector: Head, Nervous system
A: You can see on the terahertz spectrum. The terahertz spectrum is even lower on the light spectrum than infrared is. The light doesn't travel very far at all, and is completely absorbed once it's too far away from the source because it is absorbed by the atmosphere. However, because you also have two small glands beneath your eyes that project terahertz light, you can use this to your advantage. You are able to project enough terahertz radiation that you can see in pitch blackness, and even through most thin materials. Your glands act like tiny flashlights, but only light things up with energy that you and other terahertz capable people can see. Terahertz vision can only go about 10 meters at maximum in-atmosphere.
A: You can see in pitch blackness for a limited distance in front of you. This allows you to see in black and white, but not color. You can read in pitch blackness by using this. If someone is in front of your cone of light, and they are within double your vision range, they can see your terahertz light. However, they can not see you. Likewise, you would not be able to see them- if they are outside your vision range, the photons are absorbed by the atmosphere before they can make it back to your eyes.






:F:
A: Fat storage: Digestive System
A: You have a fat hump, or distributed fat, whose purpose is water and protein storage.
A: This affects the length of time you don't need water and food. You can normally go 3 minutes without oxygen, 3 days without water, and 3 weeks without food. If your hump is full, you can go 3 weeks without water and 3 months without food.






A: Foot vision: Foot, Nervous system, Skin
A: You can 'see' vibrations and locations of objects through your feet based on vibrations of the ground. You can not use this to track flying things, but you can track the motion of things on the ceilings and walls if the distance of material between your foot and the object moving isn't too great.
A: This lets you see through solid objects, such as floors, walls, ceilings, etc. It also lets you see the ground in a 360 degree angle.






A: Frog tongue: Head, musculoskeletal
A: You have a tongue that can explode from your mouth. It is very flexible, and in the unfortunate scenario where it is cut off, it takes it just a week to grow back.
A: This allows you the ability to grab things with your tongue, or to deliver a straight thrust with a small weapon you can fit in your mouth.






:G:



A: Gecko pads: Skin, integumentary system, hands, foot
A: You have suckers in sufficient quantity and strength that you can 'climb' on ceilings in environments with 1 earth gravity environments. Most frequently on hands and feet, sometimes on shins.
A: Grants the ability listed above, but requires that you not be wearing armor over the padded areas to use them.






A: Giant ears: head
A: You have very big ears.
A: If these are human-like ears, there are no effects. If these are radial ears, then they are now 'expressive.' You claim a bonus to intimidation and diplomacy, but are worse at deceiving people about your intentions.






A: Gliding Membrane: Skin, Integumentary system
A: You have a gliding membrane that stretches from your ankles to your wrists. They billow out or tighten up, allowing you to glide and slow your falls from high places if your clothes don't interfere.
A: You have the ability to glide at triple landspeed rate, but you can not increase elevation, fly, or take any actions with your feet or hands. Some skeletons may also have additional bone structures to help the gliding. This does not make them wings. The thing being described here is any biological construction that allows gliding where the gliding part is unarmored and your main limbs (tail excluded) can not be used for another action.






:H:



A: heart shunt: Cardiovascular, thorax
A: heart shunt- Your heart has 3 chambers, one of which contains a wall which can shunt blood flow such that deoxygenated blood goes to the lungs, mixed blood goes to the body, and oxygen rich blood goes to the brain. As a result, you can hold your breath for extended periods of time. However, this also causes stamina to recover at half the rate it usually would.
A: This positively affects how long you can hold your breath, how hard you are to kill, and negatively impacts the rate at which you recover stamina.






A: Hindbrain: Nervous system
A: You have a brain hooked up to a partial nervous system in an area that is not directly controlled by your central nervous system.
A: You are able to respond to threats more quickly, but you're also easier to startle. This negatively impacts your ability to talk to people, but positively impacts your ability to react to danger.






A: Hoofed: Hand, Foot, Musculoskeletal
A: Your hands and feet are hoofed.
A: You can use your punching and kicking attacks to parry weapons, as they are hard as medieval metal.






A: hopper: musculoskeletal, pelvis, leg, foot
A: Your body is designed for jumping, not walking.
A: Your running speed is greatly reduced, but your jumping distance is tremendously increased. This trait requires the kangaroo feet.








A: Horns: Head, Musculoskeletal
A: You have horns on your head. They may be sharp like a bull's, round like a ram's, coiled like a gazelle, could be antlers like a deer, giant antlers like a moose, or even bone plated skull.
A: Having horns affects cost of armor and grants new combat options.






A: Hypodermic Hair: Keratin, Endocrine exocrine System
A: You can shoot hairs full of chemicals at a person, and they'll stab into their flesh and inject their chemical. Alternatively, they'll clog up an air filter.
A: This is an aesthetic trait, and allows you to change the nature of a spray attack to one that uses hypodermic hairs.


:I:



A: Ink: Endocrine exocrine system
A: You are able to excrete a black, foggy material that blocks all light trying to get through it. It blocks all light. This includes infrared, ultraviolet, and every other kind of vision. However, depending on the setting, some races may be able to choose which spectra they are blocking. In this way, the ultraviolet and color spectra vision people may be blind, but the infrared and tetrahertz vision people would not be blind. It can even block radiowaves.
A: This grants a racial ability that allows the user to obscure an area, making it impossible for some or all people to see through it. It can be a mist, spray, or work intravenously.






A: Internal Bleeding: Endocrine Exocrine system
A: The damage causes internal bleeding. This is the most generic form of poison, but causes the target to puke blood on things similar to a 'crit.'
A: This can use mist, spray, or intravenous to attack other targets. If the gland is a form of suicide enablement device, it can be used with internal gland.






:J:



:K:



A: Kangaroo feet: Foot, muculoskeletal
A: You have enormous, bouncy feet.
A: Your kicks, jumping, and swimming are all improved. However, armor costs as much as the foot armor of someone 2 feet taller than you, and your feet are easier to target.






:L:



A: Lack of scent: Digestive System, exocrine, integumentary system, skin
A: You don't release scents that other organisms on your planet, or most organisms in general, are capable of smelling.
A: You are virtually invisble on the olfactory spectrum. You smell like the places you've been since your last bath, but you yourself have no smell.






A: limbs dwarfed: Arm, leg, musculoskeletal
A: Your limbs are stout.
A: This affects your reach negatively and your endurance positively.






A: limbs slender: Arm, leg, Musculoskeletal
A: Your limbs are long and slender.
A: This affects your reach positively and your lift negatively.





A: limb regeneration: Musculoskeletal
A: Your limbs will regenerate if severed. So will most of your secondary organs, assuming you live long enough without them.
A: This trait requires the pressure valve trait. Because of that, this technically costs 2 points. You can usually regenerate a large bone per week. Regenerating an entire leg or an arm usually takes 2 weeks.








A: Long neck: Musculoskeletal, Neck
A: You have a larger neck. It is not only longer, but it is also thicker. The larger necks extend into the chest muscles to support themselves.
A: This affects the difficulty to target your neck, the toughness of your neck, how easy it is to shoot you, how hard it is for you to die, the cost of armor, your reach, and the damage of fighting attacks dealt with your head.







A: Long Torso: thorax, abdomen, back, Musculoskeletal
A: Your torso is disproportionately long. This makes you a larger target, but also gives you more reach.
A: This grants a bonus on defending from fighting attacks, but a penalty on defending from ranged attacks. You are harder to kill, but getting armor for your torso is now more expensive.







:M:



A: Metabolic hell: Digestive System
A: Your body has the effects of all drugs for half duration and double effect.
A: This can not be taken in conjunction with metabolic limbo.






A: Metabolic Limbo: Digestive System
A: Your body has the effects of all drugs for double duration and half effect.
A: This can not be taken in conjunction with metabolic hell.






A: Mimic vocals: Head, Musculoskeletal
A: You are able to replicate virtually every sound you can hear. You can only emulate one person's voice at a time, though.
A: You receive an extremely high bonus to disguise checks on your voice. Machines can barely differentiate. Anyone trying to discern if you are you must do so through your mannerisms and speech patterns rather than the sound of your voice.






A: Muzzle: Head, Musculoskeletal.
A: Your nose and mouth extend to in front of your mouth in a single structure, making a snout or a muzzle.
A: Affects damage, mouth's targetting profile, mouth's toughness, range of attacks using your head, and cost of armor.






:N:
A: Nerve Toxin: Endocrine Exocrine system
A: You have the ability to damage people's with a toxin produced in your body.
A: This can cause paralysis and eventually death. Some animals may be immune or have a resistance to it. It works by reducing your nervous system's functionality, so incorporate that into the system the way you think is best. This can use the mist, spray, and intravenous attack methods. In theory, it can be used with the internal gland, but it would only affect the user.






A: Nose of Better Sniffing: Head, Nervous system
A: Your brain is able to process a variety of smells and record them as unique to the person they come from, as well as detect fainter traces of a smell. If you smell someone once, you will remember what they smell like and will recognize it if you smell it again later- assuming you remember it.
A: You have access to scent abilities that allow you to identify particular people and animals. This can be used to track them.









A: Nose of Scenting: Nervous system
A: You gain the scent ability.
A: You can smell as well as most animals can.



:



:
A: Pheromones: Endocrine Exocrine system,
A: You release spores of hormones from your skin. These spores induce various emotions or communicate different messages. Generally speaking, a pheremone will enhance one type of action while impairing another. Pheremones do not force or prevent any action or type of action to be taken, ever.
In addition to having pheremones that affect behavior, you also possess pheremones that allow you to communicate with anyone who uses pheremones. You are able to send messages such as "Food ahead left, Danger ahead above, safety right forward" and other such simple messages. You can not use the particular name of any object, nor can you use specific numbers (though you can communicate general quantities- one, few, many, etc.)
A: Pheremones grants a racial ability that, depending on setting, may be able to affect the nervous systems of one or all species. It also grants the ability to communicate, either through secretion of liquid on a single spot or by filling the air with the chemical message. Air filters make a person immune to the effects of hormones, but they may be specially modified to allow for pheremones to pass through. They can use mist, spray, or intravenous attacks, and can also be released directly in the brain for using their effect on the host.




A: Photosynthesis: Digestive System, Skin
A: You can turn sunlight into food if you have access to water and CO2.
A: This prevents you from needing to eat in order to not starve.






A: Pinchers: Hand, Musculoskeletal
A: You have pinchers on your hands and feet.
A: Your grappling attacks can also deal bleeding attacks, and can sever what you grab.












A: Poison sense: Head, Nervous system
A: You are able to determine if a substance is hazardous to your health due to the smell and taste of it. Be warned- some synthetic chemicals can kill you with a single wiff.
A: If there is a toxic substance in the air around you or in something you're consuming, or on an object nearby, you have a bonus to detect it.






A: Pressure valves: Cardiovascular
A: You do not pass out under 7 G's, where most humans would. You can withstand up to 12 Gs before passing out. However, going above 7 G's makes your legs slowly begin falling asleep.
10 G's makes everything under your armpits begin losing oxygen, with the exception of your heart and lungs. (most of your organs are beneath your armpits.)
Pressure valves also cut off blood flow to unneccessary body parts when they begin bleeding out.
When internal organs are bleeding out, valves allow them just enough blood to live. (local muscle clusters may provide oxygen for the organs if they have the deep red O2 cells.)
A: This renders you immune from bleeding to death as long as the path between your and lungs remains uninterrupted.






A: Psychosis Cycle: Nervous system
A: If someone would mind control you, your brain temporarily shuts down instead of being taken over. You then spend a round waking up. If you would suffer crippling sound, light, or smell damage, your brain shuts off the sensory component until it is safe for use again.
A: This provides an immunity to all mind interference, be it magical, biological, or technological.






:Q:



:R:
A: Radiation ears: Head, Cardiovascular system
A: Your ears are especially large. They radiate any excessive heat your body has. They usually have fur, feathers, internal valves, or can fold down against the body to prevent them from shedding heat when you are cold.
A: They are so larget that they cause a penalty to hide checks. (Each is about 1 foot tall and at least half a foot wide.) They do not cause additional lethal damage if struck, but tit is painful when they are struck.




A: Resist disease: Endocrine Exocrine system, Immune system,
A: You resist disease much more easily than others.
A: This affects how difficult it is for you to contract diseases.






A: Retractable: Musculoskeletal
A: You have a body part or a pair of body parts that is retractable into your body.
A: This lets you hide limbs and biological weapons when they're not in use.





A: Rhemorra mouth: Head, musculoskeletal
A: Your mouth is circular in nature, like a rhemorra's.
A: There are no inherent mechanical effects of having a rhemoora mouth- but to people not used to seeing it, it could make you seem more alien. This could negatively affect your ability to reason with them, and xenophobic people may dislike you more.



:S:
A: Scavenger: Digestive System, immune
A: Your gastroinestinal tract is immune to diseases transferred by ingestion. You are immune to the poisons made by rotten food. Bio-engineered diseases can still affect you, as can other entry vectors, sucn as open injuries.
A: This affects how hard it is for you to get sick, and gives you a wider array of things you can eat, be they cooked or not.






A: Self destructive adrenaline: Endocrine exocrine system
A: You don't stop running and fighting until you die. Literally.
A: You take damage in exchange for stamina.






A: Semipermeable skin: Integumentary system, cardiovascular
A: You can breathe through your skin. It isn't very efficient, but does let you stay conscious if your mouth and throat close up for some reason.
A: This lets you breathe in sandstorms, underwater, and in any other nontoxic environment with oxygen.








A: Shockpads: Skin, Integumentary system, exocrine system
A: You have shockpads. You can temporarily paralyze people, as well as short out electronics.
A: You can't hit anyone on land unless your pad is in direct contact. For this reason, offensive pads are on the hands, and defensive pads are on the neck. Most species have both. If you're underwater, you can hit people at a range by using explosion damage rules. You are resistant to your own electric charges.






A: skeleton of Aquatic: Musculoskeletal
A: Your body is designed to move through water. You may have a variety of fins and flippers, or you may not. The effect is the same.
A: Being aquatic affects your land and your water speed.








A: Skeleton of Biped: Musculoskeletal
A: You stand and run on two feet.
A: Normal rules apply.






A: Skeleton of Biquad: Musculoskeletal, pelvis
A: You have a specialized pelvis that lets you walk on two legs like a raptor or four legs like a dog. You are built similarly to a quadruped, so when you stand up, your arms are noticably longer than normal- as long as most people's legs, and as thick. To compensate for the larger arms, your torso is more broad. You look like a sort of bear or raccoon.
A: Being a quadruped affects how hard you are to hit, how much space you occupy, the cost of armor, how hard you are to kill, how quickly you move and jump, how much you weigh, how much you can lift, how much damage you inflict in a melee, and how far away you can strike someone.






A: Skeleton of Nagoid: Musculoskeletal, leg
A: Nagoids have a human-like torso with a snake like lower body. Not all of them have scales or snake heads, though. Because the ratio of tail to torso can vary immensely, and because the spine is a complex bone set, this skeletal system can not be taken by itself. You must also specify a bone structure from above to indicate what your particular nagoid looks like. For example: One race of nagoids might be quadrupedal, giving them large arms and making them unable to easily stand up. Another might be centauric, and could have a default position of standing. Both would be more massive than a biped-style nagoid, which would have the shortest length of tail necessary to keep standing.
A: Being a nagoid affects how you move around. Because the total amount of mass depends on the secondary skeleton type you choose, it changes very little else.






A: Skeleton of Raptor build: Musculoskeletal, pelvis
A: They are oriented forward, but stand on two legs. Their longer torso is counterbalanced with a large tail. They have two normal sized arms and two rather large legs.
A: Being a raptor-built affects how quickly you move and jump, cost of armor, and how much damage your head and kick attacks deal. Due to the neck and tail, it also affects how hard you are to kill, how much space you occupy, and your reach.




A: Sleep Master: Head, Nervous system
A: You can enter hibernation to reduce the energy your body uses to survive long periods of no nutrition, but you don't actually need as much sleep as most people- you only need two hours of sleep to fully recharge, and you only need to sleep every 2 days. To heal, you still must rest for a long period of time, but you don't need to be asleep while you do it.
A: This affects how good of a watchman you are, and also allows you to survive extreme conditions that would normally kill other people.






A: skeleton Semicollapsible: Back, musculoskeletal
A: You have a semicollapsible skeleton. You can turn your head 360 degrees, and your back another 360 degrees. You can fit through holes that would normally be too small for you to fit through. You are a natural contortionist.
A: This affects grapple checks and the size of spaces you can fit through.






A: Skeleton size variation: Musculoskeletal.
A: You are a particular size.
A: Your size affects how hard you are to hit with a ranged weapon, how hard you are to kill, the range of your melee attacks, and how easy it is to blend into the background.






A: Skeleton of Taur: Musculoskeltal, pelvis
A: You have a skeleton that resembles a centaur. The 'human' part doesn't have to resemble a human, and the 'horse' part doesn't have to resemble a horse. Taurs are more massive because of how their bodies are shaped and the additional legs, pelvis, and extended length and breadth torso. You are able to sit on the floor with your back legs while standing with your front legs.
A: Being a taur affects how hard it is to hit you, how much space you occupy, the cost of armor, how hard you are to kill, how fast you move, how far you jump, how much you weigh, how much you can lift, and how much damage you inflict in melee.




A: Skeletonless Sack Organism: Musculoskeletal
A: Your body has no bones! Your are able to walk upright due to a system of bladders and fluid pressure.
A: This affects the kinds of spaces you can fit through and how you react to certain types of damage.






A: Skin pocket: Skin, Integumentary system
A: You have a pouch of skin as a pocket. Without knowing it's there, most people will never notice it.
A: It is difficult to notice this. Anyone who doesn't know where to look suffers a penalty when looking for it. If you don't have a lot in it, they might never realize it's even there.






A: Static Camouflage: Skin, Keratin, Integumentary system
A: You are a similar color and shading as a type of environment. You blend in to your environment rather well.
A: The more ranks you have in this, the better the bonus to your hide checks in your environment. However, it will cause harsher stealth penalties when you're in nonnatural environments.






A: Skunk stink: Endocrine Exocrine system
A: You can release a foul, foul odor.
A: Foul odors are especially effective against anything with a bonus to smell. Having a penalty in the ability to use scent does not grant a bonus unless you are totally smell-blind. Skunk stink can be used in mist or spray form.






A: Slime: Skin, Exocrine
A: Your body can become covered in slime at will. This is very disgusting and potentially very useful.
A: The slime can interfere with and block airborne skin-absorbed chemicals. You are much harder to grapple, but but the slime makes it much harder for you to grab things, too.






A: Snake Tongue: Head, Musculoskeletal, Nervous system
A: You have a "snake tongue." It may or may not be forked. It allows its user to smell using their tongue instead of their nostrils.
A: All smell abilities depend on your tongue to function. However, you are now immune to checks caused by rotten or foul odors as long as your mouth stays shut.






A: Speaking high: Head, Nervous System
A: You have the ability to hear extremely high pitched sounds, as well as the ability to converse on those frequencies. You can use echolocation to see shapes with your ears. Anyone who can hear high pitched noises can 'see' the echo, at least as far as they can hear. Because of this, one person may make the hypersonic click, and those with them will be able to see because of it.
A: You can use echolocation to discern shapes. This negates darkness, but not concealment.






A: speaking low: Head, Nervous system
A: You can hear incredibly low pitch sounds, as well as converse on these wavelengths. These wavelengths can travel for long distances, and are imperceptable to people without this ability.
A: You can communicate with other people who have this ability. "Shouting" makes it travel very far. However, heat makes it weaker over distance.






A: Speed healing: Digestive system
A: Normal healing checks are made once per week. This makes it once per 6 seconds.
A: This affects the rate of healing, but also affects how much stamina you have left.






A: Spinal Liquid Sacks: Neck, Back, Nervous system
A: Your spine isn't like most other organisms. It is made of sacks of fluid that transmit the signals. When it is damaged, you are temporarily unable to move anything beneath the puncture. However, once it heals up, you recover full functionality.
A: Though it won't heal within the duration of a quick battle, it only takes it an hour to close most puncture wounds. Even if the spine is cut in half, it will be able to repair itself in a day or so.






A: Split Lip: Head, musculoskeletal
A: You have a very strange mouth! It resembles a normal mouth most of the time, but your upper and lower jaw can both split sideways.
A: There are no inherent mechanical effects of having a split lip, but to people not used to seeing it, it could make you seem more alien. This could negatively affect your ability to reason with them, and xenophobic people may dislike you more.






A: Symbiotes: Digestive system, immune
A: You have poison-eating symbiotes in your body, making you resistant or immune to many kinds of poisons. If the symbiotes are natural, they work against all biological poisons. If the symbiotes are artificial, they work against either natural or artificial poisons, depending on how they were designed.
A: This makes poisons die out much more quickly in the body.






:T:
A: Tail: Tail, musculoskeletal
A: Tail: You have a tail. It can do many things, or it might just be expressive. Having a larger tail does not cost more points. Having a tail that is anything but expressive does cost one point, however.
A: The smaller your tail, the less it affects the cost of armor, how hard you are to kill the ease with which enemies can target it, the damage it deals, and its resistance to damage. The bigger your tail, the more those things are affected. It affects your balance, and it is capable of grabbing things. The bigger your tail, the farther away it can hit things.






A: Tentacles: Musculoskeletal, arm, leg
A: Your arms and legs have no bones.
A: You use a system of fluid bladders to walk upright. Your carry is reduced. However, your limbs are made of almost pure muscle. Your lift and melee damage are increased.






A: Thick skin: Skin, fat, integumentary system, keratin
A: Your skin, fur, scales, chitin, shell, feathers, or whatever is on your exterior is sufficiently thick and solid enough to prevent damage.
A: This affects your entire body's damage absorption. The more universal it is, the more it costs. The more it protects, the more it costs.






A: third lung: Cardiovascular
A: You have a third lung whose sole function is to cool your body off.
A: This lung allows you to endure greater heat exposure and allows you to work longer, both in the short and the long term.








A: Tingly Pain: Nervous system
A: Your pain is not debilitating; it's informative. Instead of feeling pain, you feel various degrees of tingling ranging from 'that's not good' to 'i'm probably about to die.'
A: You do not suffer penalties due to pain.






A: Touch communication: Nervous system
A: You can communicate complicated thought sequences to others with touch communication by simply touching your receptor to theirs. For 1 point, you can communicate vast quantities of sentences in very brief amounts of time- about a page per communication action. For 2 points, you can communicate thoughts and memories regarding broad topics or specific subjects at a whim.
A: You can transfer data as you know it to someone in an instant. If you have 2 points, you can transfer volumes of knowledge as you know it.






A: Trunk: Head, Musculoskeletal
A: You have a long, armlike protrusion where your nose should be. It can grab and wield things like an arm. Tiny trunks aren't very useful in combat, but can hold your coffee cup so you can sip on it while typing on the computer.
A: Having a trunk affects how hard your nose is to hit, benefits from having a longer neck, affect how hard you are to kill, and lets you use it as a spare arm.






A: Tusks: Head, musculoskeletal
A: You have a pair of sharp, bonelike protrusions jutting out from your mouth. Speices with larger tusks usually have more powerfully built necks.
A: Tusks can be used as a stabbing weapon. Though they do not cause HP loss if damaged, they are incedibly painful if split down the middle. If cut off, they will continue to grow as long as the internal root is not damaged. If splitting down the middle, the tusk will break off before it reaches the root due to the way it grows.






:U:
A: Unaging: Endocrine exocrine system
A: When the species reaches physical maturity, they stop aging. Their Telomeres reproduce. Their testosterone and estrogen never decrease with age.
A: Because of the hormones that are a constant in your blood, social checks are considered a technical skill for you. However, you gain more skill points because of your life experiences.






A: Underwater Ears: Head, Nervous system
A: Your ears are made to hear under water.
A: If these are your only ears, you can hear underwater much better, but on land much, much worse. If you have extra ears, and one pair is aquatic, you can hear both very well.






:V:
A: Vacuum seal: Skin, Keratin, Integumentary system
A: Your skin can seal tight over all of your body, allowing you to maintain your pressure as though you were not in a vaccuum. You can last this way as long as you have oxygen.
A: You do not suffer the negative effects of vaccuum. Your seal protects you against the unfiltered UV radiation of sunlight.






A: Vent-seal: Integumentary system, keratin
A: When cold, the follicles of your cover make the cover seal tight, providing excellent cold weather resistance. When warm, they open up, letting your body shed its excess heat. This also functionally waterproofs you.
A: This grants cold, heat, and wetness exposure resistance. If a poison is splashed on you, the follicles will react to the wetness and close instantly.






A: Vibrosensation: Nervous system, Skin
A: You are able to sense the vibration of air molecules on your skin thanks to very sensitive nodes that detect changes in air pressure. Another way to think of it is that you have many tiny ears in your skin.
A: You can 'see' movement in a short range around you, regardless of lighting. The more movement, the less useful this is. If the day is especially windy, you can only feel the wind. You can also instantly feel drafts and cracks when the air is otherwise still.






:W:
A: Wagging tail:
A: You have a tail that gives away your emotions.
A: If you have no tail, ignore this. If you have a tail, you have a bonus on intimidate and diplomacy, but a bad die on hiding your feelings and intentions.






A: weapon bone spur: Arm, Leg, Back, Head, Foot, Hand, Musculoskeletal
A: You have a sharp spur of bone sticking out somewhere on your body. It could be your arm, your leg, or a weird kind of horn. It can be retracted and extended at will.
A: You can deal bleeding damage with your body. It may have a gland- if so, it may cause poison damage. Your bone is as hard as many kinds of medieval metals.






A: weapon claws: Hand, foot, wing tip, musculoskeletal
A: You have retractable claws.
A: This grants access to the claw attack, which works like a punch or kick, but inflicts bleeding damage.






A: Weaponized tail: Musculoskeletal, tail tip
A: Your tail is no longer capable of fine manipulation, but instead has some sort of weapon attached to the end.
A: This affects the type of damage your tail does, and can increase the damage as well.






A: Web: Exocrine
A: This webbing is strong, but degrades rapidly. Some variants of web may even have poison in them. Web can be sticky or not sticky at the creator's discretion when making it. You can use it to hold doors shut, make trip wires for traps, detection threads for camps, and more. It becomes weaker as each day goes by.
A: Webbing lets you naturally produce webbing. Sticky webbing requires some sort of strength check to escape, and is strong enough that even sharp weapons may become stuck in them. Spraying someone with it is a spray attack.






A: wings: Musculoskeletal, back, wings,
A: You have wings that can fly. If you want the wings to also function as arms, you must also spend a point on the additional arm point.
A: Each wing is as tall as your body, and your wingspan is triple your height. You are easier to hit with ranged weapons while flying.






:X:



:Y:



:Z:



POISONS
I feel there are two kinds of poisons. There are real poisons, and there are poisons as people desire them to work for fantasy games. I do not know of any that are both. Real poisons take a few seconds to start having effects, and whether or not it's lethal depends on an enormous number of factors. Fantasy poisons apply during combat and may wear off during the same battle it was used in. The below are all fantasy poisons. If you want to use a real poison, your best bet is to google it and apply the effects in a narrative manner rather than try to force them to fit in a dice system.






NOTE: For all biochemical weapons, the damage target and toughness target do not include armor or weapon damage bonuses. Because of this, all targets are based solely off of the attributes of the users.






A: Glands: Endocrine exocrine
A: Glands produce chemicals. The chemicals include biochemicals, drugs, poisons, medicines, and more.
A: Glands use the mist, spray, intravenous, skin contact, or internal gland to use the actual chemical. You need at least one to use a chemical.



A: Mist: Endocrine, Exocrine
A: This describes how certain chemicals may be propegeated. Mists are those chemicals which fill the air with a lingering mist. The user decides which cubes of space are filled, but each cube must either be adjacent to their space or adjacent to 2 other cubes of mist.
A: Mist chemicals tend to be less effective than other chemicals, but due to how quickly they can erupt into the air, they can not be dodged in the traditional sense. Successfully defending against a mist attack can either be because you held your breath or you were too tough for it to affect you. However, each cube of mist will 'attack' anyone in it at the beginning of each round. Once you use all your cubes of spray, you can't use any more until you eat food and digest some of it. (usually about 2 hours.)






A: Spray: Endocrine, exocrine
A: This describes how certain chemicals may be propegeated. Sprays are those chemicals which are projected out in a cone of fluid.
A: Spray chemicals are focused, and therefore dodgable. They do more damage than mists, but less damage than intravenous chemicals. They are the middle ground of chemical attacks.






A: Intravenous: Endocrine, Exocrine
A: This describes how certain chemicals may be propegeated. Intravenous chemicals are those chemicals which are transferred upon blood contact. For example: Snake bites and scorpion stings.
A: This is the most destructive of all chemical attacks. It requires the attacker to deliver it manually, however, and armor of any kind can interfere with what would otherwise be a successful delivery. If it deals damage successfully, it will continue to do so for several minutes afterward.






A: Skin contact: Endocrine exocrine
A: This describes how certain chemicals may be propegated. Skin contact chemicals are transferred upon skin to skin contact. For example: Poison dart frogs.
A: This uses the intravenous attack methods, however, it can be delivered if anyone touches the skin of the subject as well.









A: Internal Gland: Endocrine, Exocrine
A: You have a gland inside you that produces a drug.
A: The gland is capable of using the effects of pheremones and drugs on the person who has it. The strength of these effects vary, but because all drugs have equal degrees of penalties as they do benefits, one intensity does not cost more than another intensity. If it's reflexive, it occurs every time you think you're in combat, and requires a will check against a body check to not activate. If it's manual, activating it requires an action of some type.
